docs/build/wasm/from-zero-to-ink-hero/nft/CustomTrait/customtrait.md, before:

# Custom Trait

As a next step we want to expand contract with more utility methods to have more control over the NFT creation, minting, payments and all that most of the NFT projects will need.
To start with we will move `mint()` from contract `lib.rs` to a custom trait `PayableMint`.

## Folder Structure for Custom Trait
Before starting to add code we need to prepare the scene for the external trait. Create new `logics` folder with following empty files:
```bash
.
├── Cargo.toml
├── contracts
│   └── shiden34
│       ├── Cargo.toml
│       └── lib.rs
└── logics
    ├── Cargo.toml
    ├── impls
    │   ├── mod.rs
    │   └── payable_mint
    │       ├── mod.rs
    │       └── payable_mint.rs
    ├── lib.rs
    └── traits
        ├── mod.rs
        └── payable_mint.rs
```

## Module Linking
With the extended structure we need to link all new modules. Let's start from `logics` folder.   
The crate's `lib.rs` needs to point to impls and trait folders and since it is top module for this crate it needs a few macros:
```rust
#![cfg_attr(not(feature = "std"), no_std)]
#![feature(min_specialization)]

pub mod impls;
pub mod traits;
```

The crate's `Cargo.toml` will import all ink! and Openbrush crates and it will be used by the contract's `Cargo.toml` to import all methods. We will name this package `payable_mint`.
```toml
[package]
name = "payable_mint_pkg"
version = "0.2.0"
authors = ["Stake Technologies <devops@stake.co.jp>"]
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
ink_primitives = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_metadata = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false, features = ["derive"], optional = true }
ink_env = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_storage = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_lang = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_prelude = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }

scale = { package = "parity-scale-codec", version = "3", default-features = false, features = ["derive"] }
scale-info = { version = "2", default-features = false, features = ["derive"], optional = true }

openbrush = { tag = "v2.3.0", git = "https://github.com/Supercolony-net/openbrush-contracts", default-features = false, features = ["ownable", "psp34", "reentrancy_guard"] }

[lib]
path = "lib.rs"
crate-type = ["rlib"]

[features]
default = ["std"]
std = [
    "ink_primitives/std",
    "ink_metadata",
    "ink_metadata/std",
    "ink_env/std",
    "ink_storage/std",
    "ink_lang/std",
    "scale/std",
    "scale-info",
    "scale-info/std",
    "openbrush/std",
]
```
Add same `mod.rs` file in folders: traits, impls, and impls/payable_mint.
```rust
pub mod payable_mint;
```
As a last step add link to `payable_mint` in contract's `Cargo.toml`.
```toml
payable_mint_pkg = { path = "../../logics", default-features = false }

[features]
default = ["std"]
std = [
    // ...
    "payable_mint_pkg/std",
]
```

## Define Custom Trait 
In `logics/traits/payable_mint.rs` add trait definition for PayableMint.
```rust
use openbrush::{
    contracts::{
        psp34::PSP34Error,
        psp34::extensions::enumerable::*
    },
    traits::{
        AccountId,
    },
};

#[openbrush::wrapper]
pub type PayableMintRef = dyn PayableMint;

#[openbrush::trait_definition]
pub trait PayableMint {
    #[ink(message, payable)]
    fn mint(&mut self, account: AccountId, id: Id) -> Result<(), PSP34Error>;
}
```

You may notice a couple of new macro commands used. More details on these and other macros can be found throughout the advanced tutorial for DEX.

## Move `mint()` to Custom Trait Implementation
Now let's move `mint()` method from the contract's `lib.rs` to the newly created `logics/impls/payable_mint.rs` file. We do not want to have duplicated calls in the contract.

```rust
pub use crate::traits::payable_mint::PayableMint;
use openbrush::{
    contracts::{
        psp34::extensions::{
            enumerable::*,
        },
    },
    traits::{
        AccountId,
        Storage,
        String
    },
};

impl<T> PayableMint for T
where
    T: Storage<psp34::Data<enumerable::Balances>>
        + psp34::extensions::metadata::PSP34Metadata
        + psp34::Internal,
{
    default fn mint(&mut self, account: AccountId, id: Id) -> Result<(), PSP34Error> {
        if Self::env().transferred_value() != 1_000_000_000_000_000_000 {
            return Err(PSP34Error::Custom(String::from("BadMintValue")))
        }
        self._mint_to(account, id)
    }
}
```
Last remaining step is to import and implement `PayableMint` for our contract:
```rust
use payable_mint::{
    traits::payable_mint::*,
};

...

impl PayableMint for Contract {}
```

Your contract with all changes should now look like this:
```rust
#![cfg_attr(not(feature = "std"), no_std)]
#![feature(min_specialization)]
        
#[openbrush::contract]
pub mod shiden34 {
    // imports from ink!
	use ink_storage::traits::SpreadAllocate;

    // imports from openbrush
	use openbrush::traits::String;
	use openbrush::traits::Storage;
	use openbrush::contracts::ownable::*;
	use openbrush::contracts::psp34::extensions::enumerable::*;
	use openbrush::contracts::psp34::extensions::metadata::*;
	use payable_mint::{
        traits::payable_mint::*,
    };

    #[ink(storage)]
    #[derive(Default, SpreadAllocate, Storage)]
    pub struct Contract {
    	#[storage_field]
		psp34: psp34::Data<Balances>,
		#[storage_field]
		ownable: ownable::Data,
		#[storage_field]
		metadata: metadata::Data,
    }
    
    // Section contains default implementation without any modifications
	impl PSP34 for Contract {}
	impl Ownable for Contract {}

	impl PSP34Enumerable for Contract {}
	impl PSP34Metadata for Contract {}
    impl PayableMint for Contract {}

    impl Contract {
        #[ink(constructor)]
        pub fn new() -> Self {
            ink_lang::codegen::initialize_contract(|_instance: &mut Contract|{
				_instance._init_with_owner(_instance.env().caller());
				let collection_id = _instance.collection_id();
				_instance._set_attribute(collection_id.clone(), String::from("name"), String::from("Shiden34"));
				_instance._set_attribute(collection_id, String::from("symbol"), String::from("SH34"));
			})
        }
    }
}
```

After this step your code should look like [this](https://github.com/swanky-dapps/nft/tree/tutorial/trait-step3).

Commit message:

first draft edits - from zero to ink hero section

docs/build/wasm/from-zero-to-ink-hero/nft/CustomTrait/customtrait.md, after:

# Custom Trait

Next, we will expand the contract with more utility methods to have more control over the NFT creation, minting, payments and all that most of the NFT projects will need.
To start with we will move `mint()` from contract `lib.rs` to a custom trait `PayableMint`.

## Folder Structure for Custom Trait
Before starting to add code we need to prepare the scene for the external trait. Create new `logics` folder with following empty files:
```bash
.
├── Cargo.toml
├── contracts
│   └── shiden34
│       ├── Cargo.toml
│       └── lib.rs
└── logics
    ├── Cargo.toml
    ├── impls
    │   ├── mod.rs
    │   └── payable_mint
    │       ├── mod.rs
    │       └── payable_mint.rs
    ├── lib.rs
    └── traits
        ├── mod.rs
        └── payable_mint.rs
```

## Module Linking
With the extended structure we need to link all new modules. Let's start from `logics` folder.   
The crate's `lib.rs` needs to point to impls and trait folders and since it is top module for this crate it needs a few macros:
```rust
#![cfg_attr(not(feature = "std"), no_std)]
#![feature(min_specialization)]

pub mod impls;
pub mod traits;
```

The crate's `Cargo.toml` will import all ink! and Openbrush crates and it will be used by the contract's `Cargo.toml` to import all methods. We will name this package `payable_mint`.
```toml
[package]
name = "payable_mint_pkg"
version = "0.2.0"
authors = ["Stake Technologies <devops@stake.co.jp>"]
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
ink_primitives = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_metadata = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false, features = ["derive"], optional = true }
ink_env = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_storage = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_lang = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }
ink_prelude = { version = "3.4.0", default-features = false }

scale = { package = "parity-scale-codec", version = "3", default-features = false, features = ["derive"] }
scale-info = { version = "2", default-features = false, features = ["derive"], optional = true }

openbrush = { tag = "v2.3.0", git = "https://github.com/Supercolony-net/openbrush-contracts", default-features = false, features = ["ownable", "psp34", "reentrancy_guard"] }

[lib]
path = "lib.rs"
crate-type = ["rlib"]

[features]
default = ["std"]
std = [
    "ink_primitives/std",
    "ink_metadata",
    "ink_metadata/std",
    "ink_env/std",
    "ink_storage/std",
    "ink_lang/std",
    "scale/std",
    "scale-info",
    "scale-info/std",
    "openbrush/std",
]
```
Add same `mod.rs` file in folders: traits, impls, and impls/payable_mint.
```rust
pub mod payable_mint;
```
As a last step add link to `payable_mint` in contract's `Cargo.toml`.
```toml
payable_mint_pkg = { path = "../../logics", default-features = false }

[features]
default = ["std"]
std = [
    // ...
    "payable_mint_pkg/std",
]
```

## Define Custom Trait 
In the `logics/traits/payable_mint.rs` file, add a trait_definition for PayableMint.
```rust
use openbrush::{
    contracts::{
        psp34::PSP34Error,
        psp34::extensions::enumerable::*
    },
    traits::{
        AccountId,
    },
};

#[openbrush::wrapper]
pub type PayableMintRef = dyn PayableMint;

#[openbrush::trait_definition]
pub trait PayableMint {
    #[ink(message, payable)]
    fn mint(&mut self, account: AccountId, id: Id) -> Result<(), PSP34Error>;
}
```

You may have noticed some unusual macro commands in these examples. They will be explained in greater detail in the next section as we go over the process of building a DEX. 

## Move `mint()` Function to Custom Trait Implementation
Let's move the `mint()` function from the contract's `lib.rs` to the newly created `logics/impls/payable_mint.rs` file, as we do not want any duplicated calls in the contract.

```rust
pub use crate::traits::payable_mint::PayableMint;
use openbrush::{
    contracts::{
        psp34::extensions::{
            enumerable::*,
        },
    },
    traits::{
        AccountId,
        Storage,
        String
    },
};

impl<T> PayableMint for T
where
    T: Storage<psp34::Data<enumerable::Balances>>
        + psp34::extensions::metadata::PSP34Metadata
        + psp34::Internal,
{
    default fn mint(&mut self, account: AccountId, id: Id) -> Result<(), PSP34Error> {
        if Self::env().transferred_value() != 1_000_000_000_000_000_000 {
            return Err(PSP34Error::Custom(String::from("BadMintValue")))
        }
        self._mint_to(account, id)
    }
}
```

The last remaining step is to import and implement `PayableMint` in our contract:

```rust
use payable_mint::{
    traits::payable_mint::*,
};

...

impl PayableMint for Contract {}
```

The contract with all its changes should now appear something like this:

```rust
#![cfg_attr(not(feature = "std"), no_std)]
#![feature(min_specialization)]
        
#[openbrush::contract]
pub mod shiden34 {
    // imports from ink!
	use ink_storage::traits::SpreadAllocate;

    // imports from openbrush
	use openbrush::traits::String;
	use openbrush::traits::Storage;
	use openbrush::contracts::ownable::*;
	use openbrush::contracts::psp34::extensions::enumerable::*;
	use openbrush::contracts::psp34::extensions::metadata::*;
	use payable_mint::{
        traits::payable_mint::*,
    };

    #[ink(storage)]
    #[derive(Default, SpreadAllocate, Storage)]
    pub struct Contract {
    	#[storage_field]
		psp34: psp34::Data<Balances>,
		#[storage_field]
		ownable: ownable::Data,
		#[storage_field]
		metadata: metadata::Data,
    }
    
    // Section contains default implementation without any modifications
	impl PSP34 for Contract {}
	impl Ownable for Contract {}

	impl PSP34Enumerable for Contract {}
	impl PSP34Metadata for Contract {}
    impl PayableMint for Contract {}

    impl Contract {
        #[ink(constructor)]
        pub fn new() -> Self {
            ink_lang::codegen::initialize_contract(|_instance: &mut Contract|{
				_instance._init_with_owner(_instance.env().caller());
				let collection_id = _instance.collection_id();
				_instance._set_attribute(collection_id.clone(), String::from("name"), String::from("Shiden34"));
				_instance._set_attribute(collection_id, String::from("symbol"), String::from("SH34"));
			})
        }
    }
}
```

At this stage, your code should look something like [this](https://github.com/swanky-dapps/nft/tree/tutorial/trait-step3).
